water
without it there would be no life on
earth
powered by the sun our weather moves
water around the planet
linking the earth skies oceans and lands
into one thriving living system
one of the greatest rain factories on
earth is the amazon rainforest
[Music]
life here is not without challenges
but those that call the jungle home have
evolved to weather the storm
even the leaves have adapted to cope
[Music]
some of the smallest residents are the
most ingenious
the tiny pygmy gecko is a master of the
jungle
so my newt it could sit on a fingertip
he is dwarfed by life in the undergrowth
[Music]
danger lies around every corner
even raindrops fall like boulders
[Music]
but this little lizard has a trick up
its sleeve
he is entirely waterproof
[Music]
gecko skin is covered in minuscule hairs
known as spines
this bristly barrier stops raindrops
from touching his skin
instead they bounce right off
but when the rainy season starts he'll
need to buck more than a raindrop
every year an area of forest the size of
the uk
floods
each canopy tree acts like a giant
fountain
sucking up and releasing some 800 liters
of water into the atmosphere
every day
in one of the greatest water cycles on
our planet and it's now
that the little pygmy gecko can really
use his superpowers
he is so light and so waterproof
he can float
a nifty way to survive the daily
downpour
he is essentially
[Music]
unsinkable
so